*guides-troubleshoot*


Troubleshooting
***************

The purpose of this guide is to serve as a means to help troubleshoot
common issues encountered when getting start with eclim, or providing
information if you've discovered a possible bug.

The first thing to note is that as of eclim 1.6.1, errors raised by
eclimd when executing an autocmd from vim, like validating a file on
write, are no longer echoed as errors to the user. Instead these
errors are logged and only displayed if your eclim log level is set to
a relevant level.  You can set the log level at any time by running:

   >

      :let g:EclimLogLevel = 10

   <


in vim, which in this case sets the logging to verbose (the default
log level is 4).  After setting the log level any external commands
that are run or autocmd errors encountered will be printed (you may
need to run :messages to see them all).

Below are a series of sections broken up by the behavior (or lack of)
experienced and the steps for diagnosing the cause of that behavior.

If you can't find the answer to your question here, be sure to take a
look at the faq (|vim-faq|) to see if your question is answered there.

*ts_workspace*


Eclim does not recognize any of my existing projects.
=====================================================

A fairly common occurrence for users new to eclim, is that after
starting eclimd and then attempting to execute some project dependent
functionality, the functionality appears to do nothing or eclim
complains that the project could not be determined.  If you have
existing projects created in eclipse and eclim is not finding them,
then the likely cause is that your projects are located in a non-
default workspace location.

For the answer to how to specify the location of your workspace when
starting eclimd, please see the faq (|eclim-workspace|) devoted to
this.

*ts_completion*


I'm editing a [java, python, php, etc] file and code completion doesn't work.
=============================================================================

- If you receive the message "E764: Option 'completefunc' is not set",
  please see the file type section below.

- Next step is to make sure that the current file is in an eclipse
  project by running the following command in the vim windows
  containing the file you are working on.

  >
     :ProjectInfo

  <

  If that returns an error that it is unable to determine the project,
  then see the workspace section above or one of the guides (|guides|)
  on creating a new project.

- If the correct project info is found, then try running the
  completion again, if it still doesn't return any results run the
  command:

  >
     :messages

  <

  This will print out any messages that you might have missed.  If you
  see an error regarding a java exception while running a command then
  see the section on troubleshooting exceptions.

*ts_ftplugin*


I'm editing a [java, python, php, etc] file and none of the file type commands exist.
=====================================================================================

This usually indicates that you don't have file type plugins enabled
in vim. To check you can run:

   >

      :EclimValidate

   <


If it complains about filetype plugin support not being found, then
follow its directions on adding the following to your vimrc:

   >

      filetype plugin indent on

   <


*ts_signs_misplaced*


Code validation signs are showing up on the wrong lines.
========================================================

This is most likely a result of eclipse being setup to use a different
file encoding than vim, most likely cp1251 (windows-1251) vs utf-8.
You should be able to resolve this issue by setting eclipse's default
encoding (|eclim-encoding|) accordingly.

If you're unsure what encoding to use, try using utf-8.

*ts_exception*


I received a java exception "while executing command" message.
==============================================================

If you receive a java exception while performing some action in vim,
it should also include a message indicating the issue.  However, if
you receive something like a NullPointerException or some other
exception which doesn't include a helpful message, then you may have
encountered a bug.

Once you've encountered this type of issue, the first step it to get
more details.  To do so you will need to obtain the command that was
being issued by eclim and run it on the command line where the full
stack trace will be emitted.  To gather these details you will need
to:

1. run :messages which will print all the messages for your current
   vim session and find the last executed command which will look
   like:

   >
      while executing command: -command ...

   <

   If there are a lot of messages, you may have to page through them
   to the end to find the most recent command.  Once you've found the
   command, copy the command text from "-command" to the end of the
   command arguments.

2. The next step is to run the command on a command line.

   - Linux / Mac / BSD:

     - open a shell and start by typing the location of your eclim
       script and then append the command you copied.:

       >
          $ /opt/eclipse/eclim -command ...

       <

       Run that and you should see the entire stack trace for the
       error.

   - Windows:

     - open a dos prompt and make sure you are on the same drive as
       your eclipse installation (if it's on your D: drive, then type
       "D:" at the prompt and hit enter.

     - Then type out the path to your eclim script and append the
       command you copied:

       >
          > "C:\Program Files\eclipse\eclim" -command ...

       <

       Run that and you should see the entire stack trace for the
       error.

Once you've obtained the stack trace, the next step it to send it to
the eclim-user (http://groups.google.com/group/eclim-user) mailing
list along with a description of what you were doing when the error
occurred, as well as the OS you are on, and whether you were using
eclimd headless or headed (inside of the eclipse gui).

*ts_incompatible_plugins*


Incompatible Plugins
====================

There are some third party eclipse plugins which currently may
interfere with eclim.  Below is a list of these known plugin
incompatibilities.

- Spring IDE: At least one user has reported that eclim's java
  validation no longer works after installing the Spring IDE.

- viPlugin: Attempting to open a file using the embedded gvim support
  fails if viPlugin is installed.  This issue has been reported on the
  viPlugin site.

vim:ft=eclimhelp